infra/k8s/README.md, before:

# FastFood API - Kubernetes infrastructure

## Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Description](#description)
- [Kubernetes Cluster](#kubernetes-cluster)
    - [Running on AWS EKS](#running-on-aws-eks)
    - [Running on Minikube](#running-on-minikube)
- [Minikube](#minikube)


## Description

The Fast food project was designed to work with **Docker compose** as well as `Kubernetes cluster`. Here it will be detailed all the **k8s** files to build and run this project:

## Kubernetes Cluster

The project is structutred in specific components within the cluster to make the project scale when it needs. To do so, it requires some Kubernetes components installed in the Cluster:

### Running on AWS EKS ###

To run in `AWS EKS`, we need to apply these resources:

 - ConfigMaps: in `k8s/configmaps` is stored all the environment variables used in **deployments**
 - Deployments: in `k8s/deployments` is the main App, devided in **Application**. Inside the *.yml* files are also implemented some **Services** components to make the comunication works between the **Application** and **REST Client**
 - HPA: in `k8s/hpa` has the **HorizontalPodAutoscaler** specification. With *HorizontalPodAutoscaler* we can enable an auto scaling of application PODs.
 - Metrics: in `k8s/metrics` has some components to enable the Cluster metrics access. To enable *HPA* work as expected, this component is required because its activate some deployments to consume the Cluster metrics. With these metrics, the *HPA* component can scale the PODs via some metric types. 
 
 After applied, wait some minutes. To show the metrics just run the command:

 ```
kubectl top nodes

NAME                              CPU(cores)   CPU%   MEMORY(bytes)   MEMORY%   
ip-192-168-128-206.ec2.internal   34m          1%     584Mi           17% 
 ```

 - Secret: in `k8s/secret` has the Kustomization component. **This folder is not tracked in Github**. This will set in the Kubernetes cluster some **environment secrets** to be consumed by the application. 
 To use tha same environment varibles, use the `kind: Kustomization` like this:

```
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
generatorOptions:
  disableNameSuffixHash: true
secretGenerator:
- name: app-env-secret
  literals:
  - QR_CODE_GATEWAY_ROOT_URL=<MERCADO_LIVRE_API>
  - QR_CODE_GATEWAY_TOKEN=<MERCADO_LIVRE_TOKEN>
  - WEBHOOK_MERCADO_LIVRE_PAYMENT=<FASTFOOD_API_WEBHOOK_HANDLER>
  - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<RDS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD>
```

### Running on Minikube ###

To run the cluster locally, install `Minikube` and apply these resources:

 - ConfigMaps: in `k8s/configmaps` is stored all the environment variables used in **deployments**. (**Remember to change the values to apply the localhost configuration**)
 - Deployments: in `k8s/deployments` is the main App, devided in **Application**. Inside the *.yml* files are also implemented some **Services** components to make the comunication works between the **Application** and **REST Client**
 - Localhost: in `k8s/localhost` has all the resources to work in `Minikube` *localhost*. The resources are:
    - Volumes: The **PV** and **PVC***. With those we can create a persistent storage to work with the Database application.
    - Metrics: The `insecure metrics` to work in `Minikube`.
    - Database: The `Deployment` and `Service` to work with `PostgreSQL` *database*
 - HPA: in `k8s/hpa` has the **HorizontalPodAutoscaler** specification. With *HorizontalPodAutoscaler* we can enable an auto scaling of application PODs.


## Minikube

To make easy to deploy and test this project we can use **Minikube** test cluster environment.
Just follow the steps on: [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/)

Commit message:

chore: update readme chore: update localhost database

infra/k8s/README.md, after:

# FastFood API - Kubernetes infrastructure

## Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Description](#description)
- [Kubernetes Cluster](#kubernetes-cluster)
    - [Running on AWS EKS](#running-on-aws-eks)
    - [Running on Minikube](#running-on-minikube)
- [Minikube](#minikube)
- [Secret](#secret)


## Description

The Fast food project was designed to work with **Docker compose** as well as `Kubernetes cluster`. Here it will be detailed all the **k8s** files to build and run this project:

## Kubernetes Cluster

The project is structutred in specific components within the cluster to make the project scale when it needs. To do so, it requires some Kubernetes components installed in the Cluster:

### Running on AWS EKS

To run in `AWS EKS`, we need to apply these resources:

 - ConfigMaps: in `k8s/configmaps` is stored all the environment variables used in **deployments**
 - Deployments: in `k8s/deployments` is the main App, devided in **Application**. Inside the *.yml* files are also implemented some **Services** components to make the comunication works between the **Application** and **REST Client**
 - HPA: in `k8s/hpa` has the **HorizontalPodAutoscaler** specification. With *HorizontalPodAutoscaler* we can enable an auto scaling of application PODs.
 - Metrics: in `k8s/metrics` has some components to enable the Cluster metrics access. To enable *HPA* work as expected, this component is required because its activate some deployments to consume the Cluster metrics. With these metrics, the *HPA* component can scale the PODs via some metric types. 
 
 After applied, wait some minutes. To show the metrics just run the command:

 ```
kubectl top nodes

NAME                              CPU(cores)   CPU%   MEMORY(bytes)   MEMORY%   
ip-192-168-128-206.ec2.internal   34m          1%     584Mi           17% 
 ```

 - Secret: in `k8s/secret` has the Kustomization component. **This folder is not tracked in Github**. This will set in the Kubernetes cluster some **environment secrets** to be consumed by the application. 
 To use tha same environment varibles, use the `kind: Kustomization` like this:

```
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
generatorOptions:
  disableNameSuffixHash: true
secretGenerator:
- name: app-env-secret
  literals:
  - QR_CODE_GATEWAY_ROOT_URL=<MERCADO_LIVRE_API>
  - QR_CODE_GATEWAY_TOKEN=<MERCADO_LIVRE_TOKEN>
  - WEBHOOK_MERCADO_LIVRE_PAYMENT=<FASTFOOD_API_WEBHOOK_HANDLER>
  - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<RDS_POSTGRES_PASSWORD>
```

### Running on Minikube

To run the cluster locally, install `Minikube` and apply these resources:

 - ConfigMaps: in `k8s/configmaps` is stored all the environment variables used in **deployments**. (**Remember to change the values to apply the localhost configuration**)
    - DB_HOST: The host for the value `DB_HOST` is `service-database-internal`.
 - Deployments: in `k8s/deployments` is the main App, devided in **Application**. Inside the *.yml* files are also implemented some **Services** components to make the comunication works between the **Application** and **REST Client**
 - Localhost: in `k8s/localhost` has all the resources to work in `Minikube` *localhost*. The resources are:
    - Volumes: The **PV** and **PVC***. With those we can create a persistent storage to work with the Database application.
    - Metrics: The `insecure metrics` to work in `Minikube`.
    - Database: The `Deployment` and `Service` to work with `PostgreSQL` *database*
 - HPA: in `k8s/hpa` has the **HorizontalPodAutoscaler** specification. With *HorizontalPodAutoscaler* we can enable an auto scaling of application PODs.
 - Secret: in `k8s/secret` has the Kustomization component. **This folder is not tracked in Github**. This will set in the Kubernetes cluster some **environment secrets** to be consumed by the application. 
 To use tha same environment varibles, use the `kind: Kustomization` like this:

```
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
generatorOptions:
  disableNameSuffixHash: true
secretGenerator:
- name: app-env-secret
  literals:
  - QR_CODE_GATEWAY_ROOT_URL=<MERCADO_LIVRE_API>
  - QR_CODE_GATEWAY_TOKEN=<MERCADO_LIVRE_TOKEN>
  - WEBHOOK_MERCADO_LIVRE_PAYMENT=<FASTFOOD_API_WEBHOOK_HANDLER>
  - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<LOCAL_POSTGRE_USER_PASSWORD>
```

## Minikube

To make easy to deploy and test this project we can use **Minikube** test cluster environment.
Just follow the steps on: [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/)

## Secret

To apply the `Kustomization` secret resource, just run the command:

```
kubectl apply -k infra/k8s/secret/
```
